# Image-Segmentation-T-cells
Definiens XD 2.0 script for the image segmentation of T cells, as used in the publication "CARD8 inflammasome signaling in human T cells" (ADD REF)

In brief, the image analysis procedure was the following: 
1)	We determine of the contours of the individual cells by using the transmitted light images (Channel1) that was acquired together with the fluorescence signal emitted by the PI-positive T cells (Channel2). The individual cells appear as dark, relatively round objects in Channel1 in an heterogeneous background arising from the transmitted light. To facilitate the reliable of the cells the cells, we first invertted Channel1 and applied a 3D-Gaussian filter with a kernel size of 5 × 5 × 3 pixels, followed by a second 3D-Gaussian filter with the same kernel size. We then subtracted the latter image from the previous one. This procedure resulted in a background-subtracted image.
2)	Then we applied a global threshold and carried out segmentation using an algorithm implemented in the Definiens XD 2.0 software platform. Briefly, the used so-called Multi-Threshold Segmentation algorithm splits the image domain and classifies the resulting image objects based on a defined pixel value threshold. This results in segmented patterns classified as “T cells” or “background”.   
3)	The average fluorescence intensity corresponding to the PI level (Channel2) was then computed for each of the resulting “T cells” objects. This procedure allowed extracting the total number and the number of PI-positive T cells in each frame. The fraction of PI-positive cells was then calculated for every image, and the average of PI-positive cells was calculated over a sliding window covering the following 30 min of each image. Note: for quantification of MDMs in Fig EV2B, this approach was not applicable, as we could not quantify the total number of cells by identifying macrophages in an automated fashion due to their heterogenous morphology. Therefore, in this experiment, the PI signal of each image was normalized to the number of cells as visually determined at the start of the experiment.
